Fixed #23528 -- Doc'd django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(). (#16861)
django/django: docs/topics/migrations.txt

``ManyToManyField``, etc.) to apps with migrations. Sometimes it may work, but
it's not supported.

Swappable dependencies
----------------------

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Author: ```diff
 The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used by migration operations to
-declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models.
+declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models. It just
+makes dependencies on the first migrations of the app instead of actual
+model name.
```
Does it look better here?

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer: @DevilsAutumn As far as I'm aware, Shai suggested to describe an expected `value`, e.g.

_"... declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models. The argument ``value`` is a string
``"<app label>.<model>"`` describing an app label and a model name, e.g. ``` ``"myapp.MyModel"`` ```"_

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer: > (note also -- @felixxm I'm not sure if this belongs in this documentation, or in its own bug report -- the current code ignores the actual model name, and just makes the dependency on the first migration of the app. If, for some reason, anyone tries to use a swappable dependency with a model that is only created in the second migration of its app, things may break)

Tricky, but I would process it separately.

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Author: @felixxm I changed that locally, but just for more clarification, i thought of adding this line too. 😄

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer 2: > > (note also -- @felixxm I'm not sure if this belongs in this documentation, or in its own bug report -- the current code ignores the actual model name, and just makes the dependency on the first migration of the app. If, for some reason, anyone tries to use a swappable dependency with a model that is only created in the second migration of its app, things may break)
> 
> Tricky, but I would process it separately.

I disagree. The currently proposed documentation is simply wrong. The key is, if the swapped-in model isn't created as part of the initial migration of an app, the dependencies can be wrong, causing migration failures.

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer: > The phrase `declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models` isn't really correct. The `swappable_dependency()` function essentially creates a dependency on the first migration in the app of the swapped-in model. That means, it essentially adds `('auth', '__first__')` if `AUTH_USER_MODEL='auth.User'` and `('accounts', '__first__')` if `AUTH_USER_MODEL='accounts.MyUser'`.

Yeah, that was also pointed out by [Shai](https://github.com/django/django/pull/16861#discussion_r1212987567). Agreed, let's be more specific here.

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer: > > > (note also -- @felixxm I'm not sure if this belongs in this documentation, or in its own bug report -- the current code ignores the actual model name, and just makes the dependency on the first migration of the app. If, for some reason, anyone tries to use a swappable dependency with a model that is only created in the second migration of its app, things may break)
> > 
> > 
> > Tricky, but I would process it separately.
> 
> I disagree. The currently proposed documentation is simply wrong. The key is, if the swapped-in model isn't created as part of the initial migration of an app, the dependencies can be wrong, causing migration failures.

I took your opinion and _"my heart is still open"_ :wink: :green_heart: Let's correct this.

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Author: ![Screenshot 2023-06-02 154102](https://github.com/django/django/assets/83907321/c3c9f678-1edf-46e1-b0bb-d9845aed9a39)

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer: There is no need to push the `value` description to a note. Also, please push edits instead of images, they are not really reviewable.

> .. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

Reviewer 3: > > (note also -- @felixxm I'm not sure if this belongs in this documentation, or in its own bug report -- the current code ignores the actual model name, and just makes the dependency on the first migration of the app. If, for some reason, anyone tries to use a swappable dependency with a model that is only created in the second migration of its app, things may break)
> 
> Tricky, but I would process it separately.

https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/34623

The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used by migration operations to
declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models.

By using ``swappable_dependency()``, you inform the migration framework that
the migration operation relies on a swappable model, allowing for the
possibility of substituting the model with a different implementation in the
future. This is typically used for referencing models that are subject to
customization or replacement, such as the custom user model

> (``AUTH_USER_MODEL``) in Django's authentication system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(``settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL``) in Django's authentication system.
```

``ManyToManyField``, etc.) to apps with migrations. Sometimes it may work, but
it's not supported.

Swappable dependencies
----------------------

.. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

> The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used by migration operations to

Reviewer 3: Dependencies are at the level of the whole migration, not single operations.

```suggestion
The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used in migrations to
```

declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models. The argument

> ``value`` is a string "<app label>.<model>" describing an app label and a model
> name, e.g. ``"myapp.MyModel"``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``value`` is a string ``"<app label>.<model>"`` describing an app label and a
model name, e.g. ``"myapp.MyModel"``.
```

By using ``swappable_dependency()``, you inform the migration framework that

> the migration operation relies on a swappable model, allowing for the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the migration relies on a migration which sets up a swappable model, allowing for the
```

possibility of substituting the model with a different implementation in the
future. This is typically used for referencing models that are subject to
customization or replacement, such as the custom user model

> (``settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL``) in Django's authentication system.

Reviewer 3: I think the distinction needs to be made -- I think `settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL` looks close enough to the `<app>.<Model>` pattern, that if we don't hammer this point in, some people will be confused.

```suggestion
(``settings.AUTH_USER_MODEL``, which defaults to ``"auth.User"``) in Django's authentication system.
```

``ManyToManyField``, etc.) to apps with migrations. Sometimes it may work, but
it's not supported.

Swappable dependencies
----------------------

.. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used in migrations to

> declare "swappable" dependencies on the first migration in the app of the
> swapped-in model. Therefore, swapped-in model should be included in the
> initial migration. The argument ``value`` is a string

Reviewer 3: This suggestion includes some grammatical improvement, and some expression of my hope that ticket-23694 or ticket-34623 may yet be fixed.

```suggestion
declare "swappable" dependencies on migrations in the app of the
swapped-in model (currently, the first migration of this app; therefore, 
the swapped-in model should be created in the
initial migration). The argument ``value`` is a string
```

Reviewer: Agreed. I'd just try to avoid `()` and `;`, e.g.
```suggestion
declare "swappable" dependencies on migrations in the app of the swapped-in
model. Currently, the first migration of this app and as a consequence the
swapped-in model should be created in the initial migration). The argument
``value`` is a string ...
```

> model should be created in the initial migration. The argument ``value`` is a

Reviewer: Ahh, right. That's my fault.

> failures. The argument ``value`` is a string ``"<app label>.<model>"``

Reviewer: I'd remove _"If the swapped-in model isn't created as part of the initial migration of an app, the dependencies can be wrong, causing migration failures."_ or change it to e.g. _"Therefore, swapped-in model should be included in the initial migration."_.

We documented how it works, IMO, we don't need to scary users, and it may not be fixable, see ticket-23694.

e.g. ``"myapp.MyModel"``.

By using ``swappable_dependency()``, you inform the migration framework that

> the migration relies on a migration which setups up a swappable model,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the migration relies on a migration which sets up a swappable model,
```

``ManyToManyField``, etc.) to apps with migrations. Sometimes it may work, but
it's not supported.

Swappable dependencies
----------------------

.. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

> The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used in migration files to specify
> a swappable dependency for a particular migration operation. It is not
> directly related to swapping models but rather influences how migrations
> handle the dependency resolution process.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ``swappable_dependency()`` function is used by migration operations to declare "swappable" dependencies such as swappable user models.
```
Suggestion: be direct and to-the-point:
 - used by migration operations
 - clarify what a "swappable dependency" is with the classic example: user models
 - avoid repetition "migration files … migration operation"; simply referring to migration operation is enough to indicate its usage

Additionally: I'm not sure the second sentence is useful. It appears contradictory as the very next paragraph talks about how it's commonly used with swappable models.

By using ``swappable_dependency()``, you inform the migration framework that
the migration operation relies on a swappable model, allowing for the
possibility of substituting the model with a different implementation in the
future. This is typically used for referencing models that are subject to
customization or replacement, such as the custom user model
(``AUTH_USER_MODEL``) in Django's authentication system.

> In summary, ``swappable_dependency()`` is a function used in migrations to
> specify dependencies on swappable models, indicating that a migration
> operation relies on a model that can be swapped with alternative
> implementations while maintaining the same interface.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Suggestion: don't summarise 2 paragraphs; it's unnecessary repetition 🙂  It kinda reminds me of when I was a kid in school trying to pad out a 1000 word essay with fillers. 😅

Author: ouch 😿 👍

``ManyToManyField``, etc.) to apps with migrations. Sometimes it may work, but
it's not supported.

> Swappable dependencies
> ======================

Reviewer: I'd put it under "Dependencies":
```suggestion
Swappable dependencies
----------------------
```

> A swappable dependency is a feature that allows you to replace or customize

Reviewer: This entire paragraph document the term _"swappable dependency"_, but not the `swappable_dependency()` function itself, which was the main goal of the ticket.

> A swappable dependency is a feature that allows you to replace or customize

Reviewer: We should document a signature
```suggestion
.. function:: django.db.migrations.swappable_dependency(value)

A swappable dependency is a feature that allows you to replace or customize
```

certain components of the framework with your own implementations. It provides a way
to define interfaces or abstract classes for specific functionalities, allowing you
to plug in different implementations based on your requirements.

One of the notable use cases for swappable dependencies is Django's authentication
system. Django provides a default authentication system, but it also allows you to swap
it out with a custom authentication backend by defining your own user model and
authentication backend class. By doing so, you can customize the authentication behavior
and integrate with external systems or alternative authentication mechanisms.

To make a component swappable, Django relies on the concept of "settings" where you
can specify the classes or modules to be used for certain functionalities. These settings
are typically defined in your project's ``settings.py`` file. By modifying
the relevant settings, you can swap out the default implementations with your own.

> Here's an example of how swappable dependencies can be used for authentication::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of how swappable dependencies can be used for authentication:
```

- Create a custom user model by subclassing ``django.contrib.auth.models.AbstractBaseUser``
  and ``django.contrib.auth.models.PermissionsMixin``.
- Define an authentication backend by subclassing ``django.contrib.auth.backends.BaseBackend``
  and implementing the necessary methods.
- In your project's settings file, set the ``AUTH_USER_MODEL`` setting to point to your custom
  user model and specify your custom authentication backend in the ``AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS`` setting.

Swappable dependencies in Django extend beyond just authentication and can be used in other areas,
such as the database backend, email backends, cache backends, and more. It provides a powerful

> mechanism for customization and integration within the Django framework.

Reviewer: There are some issue with rendering this proposition that make it hard to review. Please wrap at 79 chars, fix rendering issues and I will review it again

![image](https://github.com/django/django/assets/2865885/36456cb4-e901-4924-80c2-781258d54e83)

Author: Docs also need to be wrapped at 79 chars? 🤔

Reviewer: I'd not ask otherwise, see [contributing guide](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/internals/contributing/writing-code/coding-style/#python-style):
> _Documentation, comments, and docstrings should be wrapped at 79 characters,..._

Author: fixed 👍
